Reformat API Ref links in "Overview of APIs", clarify Stable in Release/Prerelease (#2555)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/versioning.md

Author: @liminzhu pls review this article.  
Rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/versioning?branch=pr-en-us-2555

Author: I applied wording suggestions from reviewers and entered a couple more question-comments.

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 04/24/2023
---
# Understand the different WebView2 SDK versions

> The NuGet package for the WebView2 SDK contains both a Prerelease package and a Release package.<!--todo: true?  actually two separate NuGet packages?-->  Either use a Prerelease SDK with a preview channel of Microsoft Edge, or use a Release SDK with the WebView2 Runtime.

Author: @novac42 @peiche-jessica -- Does this sentence need to be reworded?  
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/versioning -- 

"The NuGet package for the WebView2 SDK contains both a release and prerelease package."

true?

Reviewer: release and prerelease are two separate Nuget packages.

Author: Rewrote Sentence 1 as:
The WebView2 SDK is provided as a Prerelease or Release version of the **Microsoft.Web.WebView2** NuGet package.

When you use a WebView2 SDK _release_ package, use the WebView2 Evergreen _Runtime_ on your development client, rather than a Microsoft Edge preview channel.  By default, a WebView2 app targets the Runtime rather than Microsoft Edge.  By design, the Microsoft Edge Stable channel doesn't support WebView2.

> The SDK _release_ package contains all of the Stable Win32 C/C++ and .NET APIs, and doesn't include method signatures for Experimental APIs.  All of the APIs that are in a Release SDK package are fully supported, in an equal or higher build number of the WebView2 Runtime.

Author: @liminzhu -- are there some Stable APIs that are in a Prerelease SDK but not in a Release SDK?  
re: "all the stable APIs" or "all the Stable-status APIs"

Reviewer: APIs in production release are only a subset of Stable APIs in Prerelease. So I believe the answer is yes. 
Shall we say "The SDK _release_ package contains all of the Stable Win32 C/C++ and .NET APIs **in production release**"

Author: I'm going to push a commit that doesn't add new terminology / nomenclature such as "Prerelease-stable" or "production release", but just clarifies & tightens use of terms "Experimental, Stable, Release".

Author: Update: trying this recomm. from JP: 
try to only describe APIs as "stable" and "experimental", and only describe SDKs/packages as "release" and "prerelease"

Author: updated wording:
The Release SDK package contains all of the Stable Win32 C/C++ and .NET APIs that are in production release, and doesn't include method signatures for Experimental APIs. All of the APIs that are in a Release SDK package are fully supported, in an equal or higher build number of the WebView2 Runtime.

To try out new forthcoming features that are in development, use experimental APIs.  Experimental APIs are contained in prerelease versions of the WebView2 SDK, but not in release versions of the WebView2 SDK.

New APIs are introduced in phases as follows:

> 1. Experimental in prerelease.
> 1. Promoted to stable in prerelease.
> 1. Promoted to stable in release; that is, promoted to release.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Experimental APIs in a Prerelease SDK ("experimental APIs").
1. Promoted to stable APIs in a Prerelease SDK ("stable Prerelease APIs").
1. Promoted to stable APis in a Release SDK; that is, promoted to Release ("Release APIs").
```

Author: done locally

### Developing with experimental APIs and providing feedback

> The experimental APIs in a WebView2 SDK _prerelease_ package aren't guaranteed to be forward-compatible and might be removed in future Runtime updates.  When a _prerelease_ version of the WebView2 SDK is initially made available, that SDK only works with Microsoft Edge Canary.  Soon after that, the prerelease SDK also works with the Beta and Dev channels.  Use a prerelease SDK to try out new APIs early and provide feedback before the new APIs are promoted to become stable,<!-- todo: change "stable" to "prerelease stable" or to "release"? --> forward-compatible APIs.

Author: @liminzhu @novac42 -- see "todo" in this file.   Can we clarify the two levels of "stable": prerelease stable vs. release stable?  
Wording that uses "stable" should acknowledge there are two levels of "stable", and should address explicitly whether prerelease stable and/or release stable is meant.

Author: ```suggestion
The experimental APIs in a WebView2 SDK _prerelease_ package aren't guaranteed to be forward-compatible and might be removed in future Runtime updates.  When a _prerelease_ version of the WebView2 SDK is initially made available, that SDK only works with Microsoft Edge Canary.  Soon after that, the prerelease SDK also works with the Beta and Dev channels.  Use a prerelease SDK to try out new APIs early and provide feedback before the new APIs are promoted to stable release.
```
wording suggestion per Lingyan

> For full support of experimental APIs, use a Microsoft Edge preview channel, not the WebView2 Evergreen Runtime.  Any experimental APIs that are in a prerelease SDK aren't guaranteed to be forward-compatible.  The APIs that are in an SDK _release_ version are forward-compatible.  For more information, see [Forward compatibility of APIs](#forward-compatibility-of-apis), above.

Author: ```suggestion
For full support of experimental APIs, use a Microsoft Edge preview channel, not the WebView2 Evergreen Runtime.  
*  The experimental APIs that are in a Prerelease SDK aren't guaranteed to be forward-compatible.
*  The stable APIs that are in a Prerelease SDK are forward-compatible.
*  The APIs that are in a Release SDK are forward-compatible.

For more information, see [Forward compatibility of APIs](#forward-compatibility-of-apis), above.
```

Author: done locally

For full support of Experimental APIs, use a Microsoft Edge preview channel, not the WebView2 Evergreen Runtime.  When a _prerelease_ version of the WebView2 SDK is initially made available, that SDK only works with Microsoft Edge Canary.  Soon after that, the Prerelease SDK also works with the Beta and Dev channels.

Use a Prerelease SDK to try out new, Experimental APIs early and provide feedback before the Experimental APIs are promoted to become Stable, forward-compatible APIs.

*  The Experimental APIs (in a Prerelease SDK) aren't guaranteed to be forward-compatible.
*  The Stable APIs (in a Prerelease SDK) are forward-compatible.
*  The Release APIs (in a Release SDK) are also forward-compatible.

For more information, see [Forward compatibility of APIs](#forward-compatibility-of-apis), above.

The WebView2 team is seeking feedback on Experimental WebView2 APIs that might be promoted to Stable in future Prerelease SDKs (and then promoted to Release in Release SDKs).  The Experimental APIs are indicated as "experimental" in the WebView2 SDK Reference documentation.

> <!-- todo: "experimental" is missing from .NET API Ref:

Author: @peiche-jessica @novac42 -- There is an "Experimental" Alert in Win32 as claimed, but not in .NET or WinRT API Ref docs.

.NET:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webmessagereceivedeventargs.additionalobjects?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.1724-prerelease&preserve-view=true

Win32:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalwebmessagereceivedeventargs?view=webview2-1.0.1724-prerelease&preserve-view=true#get_additionalobjects

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this particular one is an experimental API as it doesn't have 'experimental' in API naming like Win32's. Would need @peiche-jessica 's help to confirm.

Author: Here is evidence in RelNotes that that release version of that .NET API is Experimental just like same as Win32: 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/release-notes?tabs=dotnetcsharp#101724-prerelease

@novac42 -- only Win32 types have "Experimental" when experimental, not .NET types.

Author: Resolving conversation as out of scope for PR.  Described the 'experimental' Note that's in Win32.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2webmessagereceivedeventargs.additionalobjects?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.1724-prerelease&preserve-view=true
Win32:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2experimentalwebmessagereceivedeventargs?view=webview2-1.0.1724-prerelease&preserve-view=true#get_additionalobjects
-->

To help you evaluate the Experimental APIs and share your feedback, use the [WebView2Feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebViewFeedback) repo.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Moving from Experimental APIs to Stable APIs

Once an API has been moved from Experimental to Stable status, you need to move your app's code to the Stable API.  Using Experimental APIs or a Prerelease SDK is not recommended for production apps.  Follow these practices when moving your app from using Experimental APIs to using Stable APIs:

> *  In your project in Visual Studio, update your WebView2 SDK package version to a newer Prerelease SDK or Release SDK.  See [Install the WebView2 SDK](../how-to/machine-setup.md#install-the-webview2-sdk) in _Set up your Dev environment for WebView2_.

Author: @novac42 @peiche-jessica -- user needs guidance on whether we mean for them to upgrade to newer Prerelease package, or newer Release package, or either one.  Could we mean either one here, or do we specifically mean Release?  

What if an API reached Stable in Prerelease but not yet added to Release - should we then advise updating to newer Prerelease here?

Reviewer: Based on the context I think here it means either one. However better to confirm with Jessica @peiche-jessica

Author: Pretty sure it's either one, depending on scenario.  Given the clarifications in this PR, Resolving comment.

> *  Update your app's code to use Stable APIs instead of Experimental APIs (for COM).  The Stable API will be supported with bug fixes, but the Experimental API will be deprecated, and not available in the newer (Prerelease or Release) SDK.  After an API is promoted to Stable, the Experimental version of that API is supported for two releases of the Prerelease SDK, in a deprecated state.  In subsequent versions of the Prerelease SDK, Experimental APIs might be modified, removed, or added.

Author: @novac42 @peiche-jessica -- I tried to address the question of whether we're meaning Prerelease or Release SDK.  This existing paragraph just talks about "the" SDK.  Pls review where I changed "SDK" to "Prerelease SDK" or "Release SDK".

Reviewer: In subsequent versions of the SDK -- imo the SDK here means both the Prerelease and Release SDK. So another option is  just to keep the old 'the SDK' wording?

Author: The new wording conforms with "SDK here means both the Prerelease and Release SDK".

Against keeping the old "the SDK" wording: This versioning.md article is about the distinction between Prerelease vs. Release, so instead of saying "the SDK", in contexts such as this section, we should be specific which type/version is meant; that's a question the user in this context will have.

Author: @novac42 - About the existing sentence:
"In subsequent versions of the SDK, experimental APIs might be modified, removed, or added."
You wrote:
"In subsequent versions of the SDK -- imo the SDK here means both the Prerelease and Release SDK"

The sentence can only mean the Prerelease SDK, not the Release SDK, because Experimental APIs (while in Experimental status) are never in the Release SDK.  The context is: highly volatile; so, the sentence is discussing only the Prerelease SDK.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Experimental APIs

To try out new forthcoming features that are in development, use _Experimental_ APIs.  Experimental APIs are contained in Prerelease SDKs, but not in Release SDKs.

As mentioned above, new APIs are introduced in phases as follows:

> | API status | Description |

Reviewer 2: Why are we duplicating this table?

Author: removed this instance
